---
description: Hub table in version 1.0 vs version 2.0
---

# 1. Hub

Data Vault v.1.0:

In Data Vault v.1.0, the HUB table is used to store a list of unique natural keys for a particular entity. These natural keys are typically sourced from the operational systems and are used to link related data across the data warehouse.

Here is an example of a HUB table in Data Vault v.1.0:

```sql
sqlCopy codeCREATE TABLE CustomerHub (
  CustomerID INTEGER NOT NULL,
  CustomerName VARCHAR(100) NOT NULL,
  CONSTRAINT PK_CustomerHub PRIMARY KEY (CustomerID)
);
```

In this example, the CustomerHub table contains a list of unique Customer IDs and their corresponding names. These Customer IDs are natural keys that have been sourced from the operational systems and are used to link related data across the data warehouse.

Data Vault v.2.0:

In Data Vault v.2.0, the HUB table is used in a similar way to v.1.0, but with some enhancements. In addition to storing a list of unique natural keys for an entity, the HUB table also includes a Hash Key, which is a system-generated key that is based on the values of the attributes of the entity.

Here is an example of a HUB table in Data Vault v.2.0:

```sql
sqlCopy codeCREATE TABLE CustomerHub (
  CustomerHashKey VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
  CustomerID INTEGER NOT NULL,
  CustomerName VARCHAR(100) NOT NULL,
  CONSTRAINT PK_CustomerHub PRIMARY KEY (CustomerHashKey)
);
```

In this example, the CustomerHub table contains a Hash Key, which is a system-generated key based on the values of the Customer ID and Customer Name attributes. The CustomerHashKey is used to link related data across the data warehouse, replacing the Customer ID as the key. The Customer ID is still included in the table as a natural key for reference purposes.

To populate the CustomerHub table in Data Vault v.2.0, a Hash Key can be generated using a hash function. For example:

```sql
sqlCopy code-- Generate a Hash Key for a customer
SELECT SHA2(CONCAT(CustomerID, CustomerName), 256) AS CustomerHashKey
FROM Customers
WHERE CustomerID = 123;
```

In this example, the SHA2 function is used to generate a 256-bit Hash Key based on the values of the Customer ID and Customer Name attributes for the customer with ID 123. The resulting Hash Key can then be inserted into the CustomerHub table, along with the Customer ID and Customer Name attributes.

In summary, the HUB table in Data Vault v.1.0 and v.2.0 is used to store a list of unique natural keys for a particular entity. In v.2.0, the HUB table also includes a Hash Key, which is a system-generated key based on the values of the attributes of the entity. The Hash Key is used to link related data across the data warehouse, replacing the natural keys as the key.
