# 3. Satellite

<mark style="color:blue;">**Data Vault v.1.0:**</mark>

In Data Vault v.1.0, the Satellites table is used to store historical or descriptive information about a HUB table. The Satellites table contains a foreign key that references the HUB table, as well as any additional attributes that are relevant to the entity or relationship.

Here is an example of a Satellites table in Data Vault v.1.0:

```sql
CREATE TABLE CustomerSat (
  CustomerID INTEGER NOT NULL,
  CustomerName VARCHAR(100) NOT NULL,
  EffectiveFrom DATETIME NOT NULL,
  EffectiveTo DATETIME NOT NULL,
  CONSTRAINT PK_CustomerSat PRIMARY KEY (CustomerID, EffectiveFrom),
  CONSTRAINT FK_CustomerSat_CustomerHub FOREIGN KEY (CustomerID) REFERENCES CustomerHub (CustomerID)
);
s
```

In this example, the CustomerSat table contains a foreign key that references the CustomerHub table, as well as Effective From and Effective To timestamps that define the period during which the attributes in the Satellite are valid.

<mark style="color:blue;">**Data Vault v.2.0:**</mark>

In Data Vault v.2.0, the Satellites table is used in a similar way to v.1.0, but with some enhancements. In addition to the foreign key that references the HUB table, the Satellites table also includes a Hash Key, which is a system-generated key that is based on the values of the foreign key attributes and any additional attributes that are relevant to the entity or relationship.

Here is an example of a Satellites table in Data Vault v.2.0:

```sql
CREATE TABLE CustomerSat (
  CustomerHashKey VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
  CustomerName VARCHAR(100) NOT NULL,
  EffectiveFrom DATETIME NOT NULL,
  EffectiveTo DATETIME NOT NULL,
  CONSTRAINT PK_CustomerSat PRIMARY KEY (CustomerHashKey, EffectiveFrom),
  CONSTRAINT FK_CustomerSat_CustomerHub FOREIGN KEY (CustomerHashKey) REFERENCES CustomerHub (CustomerHashKey)
);
sq
```

In this example, the CustomerSat table contains a Hash Key that is used to link the Satellite to the CustomerHub table, replacing the foreign key as the primary key of the table. The Hash Key is generated using a hash function based on the values of the foreign key attributes and any additional attributes that are relevant to the entity or relationship.

To generate the Hash Keys for the Satellites table in Data Vault v.2.0, a hash function can be used, similar to the example provided for the HUB table.

In summary, the Satellites table in Data Vault v.1.0 and v.2.0 is used to store historical or descriptive information about a HUB table. In v.2.0, the Satellites table also includes a Hash Key, which is a system-generated key based on the values of the foreign key attributes and any additional attributes that are relevant to the entity or relationship. The Hash Key is used to link the Satellite to the HUB table, replacing the foreign key as the primary key of the table.
