# 4. Link - Satellite

<mark style="color:blue;">**Data Vault v.1.0:**</mark>

In Data Vault v.1.0, the Link-Satellite table is used to store additional information about the relationship between two HUB tables. The Link-Satellite table contains foreign keys that reference the LINK and Satellite tables, as well as any additional attributes that are relevant to the relationship.

Here is an example of a Link-Satellite table in Data Vault v.1.0:

```sql
CREATE TABLE CustomerOrderLinkSat (
  CustomerID INTEGER NOT NULL,
  OrderID INTEGER NOT NULL,
  ShipmentID INTEGER NOT NULL,
  ShipmentDate DATETIME NOT NULL,
  CONSTRAINT PK_CustomerOrderLinkSat PRIMARY KEY (CustomerID, OrderID, ShipmentID),
  CONSTRAINT FK_CustomerOrderLinkSat_CustomerOrderLink FOREIGN KEY (CustomerID, OrderID) REFERENCES CustomerOrderLink (CustomerID, OrderID),
  CONSTRAINT FK_CustomerOrderLinkSat_OrderShipmentSat FOREIGN KEY (OrderID, ShipmentID) REFERENCES OrderShipmentSat (OrderID, ShipmentID)
);
```

In this example, the CustomerOrderLinkSat table contains foreign keys that reference the CustomerOrderLink and OrderShipmentSat tables, as well as a Shipment Date attribute that is relevant to the relationship between the two entities.

<mark style="color:blue;">**Data Vault v.2.0:**</mark>

In Data Vault v.2.0, the Link-Satellite table is used in a similar way to v.1.0, but with some enhancements. In addition to the foreign keys that reference the LINK and Satellite tables, the Link-Satellite table also includes Hash Keys, which are system-generated keys that are based on the values of the foreign key attributes and any additional attributes that are relevant to the relationship.

Here is an example of a Link-Satellite table in Data Vault v.2.0:

```sql
CREATE TABLE CustomerOrderLinkSat (
  CustomerHashKey VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
  OrderHashKey VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
  ShipmentHashKey VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
  ShipmentDate DATETIME NOT NULL,
  CONSTRAINT PK_CustomerOrderLinkSat PRIMARY KEY (CustomerHashKey, OrderHashKey, ShipmentHashKey),
  CONSTRAINT FK_CustomerOrderLinkSat_CustomerOrderLink FOREIGN KEY (CustomerHashKey, OrderHashKey) REFERENCES CustomerOrderLink (CustomerHashKey, OrderHashKey),
  CONSTRAINT FK_CustomerOrderLinkSat_OrderShipmentSat FOREIGN KEY (OrderHashKey, ShipmentHashKey) REFERENCES OrderShipmentSat (OrderHashKey, ShipmentHashKey)
);
```

In this example, the CustomerOrderLinkSat table contains Hash Keys that are used to link the CustomerOrderLink and OrderShipmentSat tables, replacing the foreign keys as the primary key of the table. The Hash Keys are generated using a hash function based on the values of the foreign key attributes and any additional attributes that are relevant to the relationship.

To generate the Hash Keys for the Link-Satellite table in Data Vault v.2.0, a hash function can be used, similar to the example provided for the HUB table.

In summary, the Link-Satellite table in Data Vault v.1.0 and v.2.0 is used to store additional information about the relationship between two HUB tables. In v.2.0, the Link-Satellite table also includes Hash Keys, which are system-generated keys based on the values of the foreign key attributes and any additional attributes that are relevant to the relationship. The Hash Keys are used to enable faster joins and queries across

\
